Banking blueprint documentation (#1)
abhijeetsidhu/mindmeld: source/blueprints/banking.rst

1. The Use Case
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Users should be able to securely access their banking information and complete tasks as if you are using a mobile banking application or speaking to a teller with natural language. They should be able to check balances, pay off credit card debt, transfer money, and carry out various other banking operations they may perform on day to day basis. 

> 

Reviewer: Update to: Users should be able to securely access their banking information and complete tasks as if they are conversing with a teller. They should be able to check balances, pay off credit card debt, transfer money, and carry out various other banking operations they may perform on day to day basis.

Reviewer: Add a description of how we expect a front end application to handle secure authentication and pass a user token to the MindMeld server via the request context (which is immutable). The MindMeld server can then use this token to retrieve user information from a secure database. In this blueprint we demonstrate how this can be done by simply passing the user_name in the context and using it to retrieve information from a simple database. For a production app, these can be replaced by a secure token and an API call to a secure database. These databases and APIs likely already exist internally at bank organizations.

Reviewer: Actually as noted below, more of the details of this description can go in the KB section, but might be worth briefly mentioning here at a high level. 

In addition where you first start giving example interaction, give an example of how to pass the context, and include a table of the usernames that people can use.

   - ``greet`` — User wants to start a conversation
   - ``transfer_balances`` — User wants to transfer money from one account to another
   - ``check_balances`` — User wants the current balance for a particular account
   - ``pay_creditcard`` — User wants to pay off a credit card bill
   - ``check_due_date`` — User wants the date the bill is due 
   - ``setup_autopay`` — User wants to activate automatic payments
   - ``exit`` — User wants to end the current conversation
   - ``help`` — User is confused or needs instructions on how to proceed
   - ``unsupported`` — User is talking about something other than banking tasks

The full list of intents for all domains is illustrated below.

.. image:: /images/hierarchy_home_assistant.png

There are two types of entities in MindMeld: :ref:`System Entities <system-entities>` and :doc:`Custom Entities <../userguide/entity_recognizer>`. System entities are pre-defined in MindMeld. Examples include ``sys_amount-of-money``, ``sys_time``, and ``sys_interval``. Custom entities are defined by the developers of each application. Within each entity folder, the file ``gazetteer.txt`` contains the full list of values for each custom entity.

> 

Reviewer: Update to: There are two types of entities in MindMeld: :ref:`System Entities <system-entities>` and :doc:`Custom Entities <../userguide/entity_recognizer>`. System entities are pre-defined and automatically detected by MindMeld. Examples include ``sys_amount-of-money``, ``sys_time``, and ``sys_interval``. Custom entities are defined by the developers of each application and detected by the models trained on the labeled data and entity gazetteer files.

> Banking blueprint defines and uses the following custom entities in the ``accounts_creditcards`` domain, which are shown below:

Reviewer: Update to: The banking app defines and uses the following custom entities in the ``accounts_creditcards`` domain:

We can illustrate this with an implementation of the ``setup_autopay`` handler:

.. code:: python

    @app.handle(intent='setup_autopay')
    def setup_autopay(request, responder):
        """
        When the user expresses an intent to activate autopay, check to see if it has
	already been enabled and if not proceed to activate it and update the user data.
        """
        # Check to see if the current status of autopay is true by pulling the user date, which would indicate it is on
        if(_get('auto_pay') != 0):
	    #if so set reply to inform user that is already turned on
	    replies = ['AutoPay is already turned on']
        else:
	    #if autopay is not on, than set to reply to indicate it has turned on 
            replies = ['AutoPay has been turned on']
	    #update the user data that autopay has been activated 
	    _put('auto_pay', 1)
	#respond with the current state of autopay
	responder.reply(replies)

> 	responder.listen()

Reviewer: Update with latest autopay changes .

		#if it is balance handle it similar to minimum but with the amount being the total credit debt
                else:
                    responder.reply(['Ok we have scheduled your credit card payment for your {payment} of ${total_balance}'])
                    _put('credit', 0)
		    _put('checking', get('checking') - responder.slots['total_balance'])
	    #handle the system entity of the exact dollar amount they want to pay off
            else:
                responder.slots['amount'] = entity['value'][0]['value']
                responder.reply(['Ok we have scheduled your credit card payment for {amount}'])
                _put('credit', _get('credit') - entity['value'][0]['value'])
		_put('checking', get('checking') - responder.slots['amount'])
	responder.listen() 

.. code:: python

For a more realistic implementation of ``pay_creditcard`` that deals with varied user flows and the full code behind all the dialogue state handlers, see the ``__init__.py`` file in the blueprint folder.

5. Slot Filling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Slot filling logic removes the overhead of having to redirect dialogue states for inquiring about missing entities. The slot filling logic is capable of

> Recognizing a missing entity which is required for the certain intent and prompting custom replies back to the user in order to attain the needed entity.

Reviewer 2: Line break in error?

                'new task', 'other', 'return'],
	#a message to prompt the user after exit
        'exit_msg' : 'A few other banking tasks you can try are, ordering checks and paying bills',
	#the number of max tries for the user to specify the entity
	'max_retries' = 1
    }

    #the app auto fill indicates it is a dialogue state which requires a form and uses slot filling logic	
    @app.auto_fill(intent='check_balances', form=balance_form)
    #the function will work as if the required entity has been provided 
    def check_balances_handler(request, responder):
        if not user_data: 
            _pull_data(request)
        if request.entities:
            for entity in request.entities:
                if entity['type'] == 'account_type':
                    responder.slots['account'] = entity['value'][0]['cname'] or entity['text']
                    responder.slots['amount'] = _get(entity['value'][0]['cname'] or entity['text'])
                    responder.reply('Your {account} account balance is {amount}')
        
.. code:: python

To learn more about slot filling please take a look at...

6. Knowledge Base
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Since the banking blueprint is a will require personal information we have decided to not include a knowledge base to mimic how this data may be received from an

Reviewer: Since the banking blueprint **~~is~~** a will

> external api.

Reviewer: from a secure server via a custom API. 

Maybe we should include the description of the context user_name/token and retrieval here instead of at the beginning.

.. code:: python

>    nlp.process('transfer two hundred dollars from my checking to my savings')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   nlp.process("transfer two hundred dollars from my checking to my savings")
```

.. code:: python

   from mindmeld.components.dialogue import Conversation
   conv = Conversation(nlp=nlp, app_path='banking_blueprint')
   conv.say("pay off my credit card bill for my remaining balance please")

.. code-block:: console

   ['Ok we have scheduled your credit card payment for your balance of $5000']

The :meth:`say()` method packages the input text in a user request object and passes it to the MindMeld Application Manager to simulate a user interacting with the application. The method then outputs the textual part of the response sent by the app's Dialogue Manager. In the above example, we requested to pay off our credit debt, in a single query. The app responded, as expected, with the amount that will be paid off.

You can also try out multi-turn dialogues:

.. code:: python

   >>> conv = Conversation(nlp=nlp, app_path='food_ordering')
   >>> conv.say('Hi there!')

>    ['Thanks for using MindMeld Bank Stephen! What would you like to do today? A few things I can help with are, checking balances, paying off your credit card, and setting up a new card.']

Reviewer 2: Replace with a single multi-turn dialogue instead of different intents.
